So you might be thinking to yourself,
I can't even quit this application
from the menu right now.
Cmd+Q doesn't do anything, right?
Cmd+W, nothing does anything, right?
I didn't put an accelerator on here,
so nothing works.
So you're like, well, I guess I have
to build this menu from scratch?
Ish, it's kind of nice if you
don't want the ability to copy,
which if you're one of those monsters,
y'all ever use a website where you go try
to copy something and they disable
your ability to copy something?
So then you have to go into the Chrome
Dev Tools and put it back, right?
Yeah, where there's a will, there's a way.
I guess if you wanted to get rid
of certain things, that's doable.
So you would think that your job is now to
re-put everything in there.
The nice part is that Electron's
got your back in this case.
It has a list of things
that we'll call menu roles,
which can better be described as things
that you probably wanted to do, right?
So I will do one and then I will give
you a minute to try out another one,
which is for that application menu, right?
If I go to it now, it's a very cool menu.
But if I said role is appMenu,
which is like,
hey, I have this menu, It's roughly an app
menu now I get At least
the ability to quit and
the like MacOS accoutrements that
you would find in here, right?
Don't have the ability to copy and
paste, right?
So take about two or three minutes just to
do a little quick exploration I will push
up this branch as well.
Can you get us back in and
you edit menu please.
Right on, so
we can kinda acquiesce a little bit.
If we've shifted up this label
appName with the appMenu,
one would hope that, theoretically,
the label, we can call it Edit,
and the nice part is you can
call it whatever you want.
We can give it the role of editMenu,
but I also will show you real quick.
With TypeScript,
we have a bunch of, you can pull in the
full fileMenu that you had to begin with.
You pull in a whole editMenu, the app
menu that we saw before, a help menu.
There are also very specific like,
I just want paste, or just paste and
match style, or just quit, or
something along those lines.
So you can do an entire menu,
cuz honestly, some of these,
like remove from recent documents,
how will you really gonna do that?
But a lot of these,
you can see that there's a whole bunch.
If you want to have undo,
so on and so forth.
And so you can kind of like,
yes, you're on the hook for
creating your own application menu
if we replace the default one.
But all the component pieces
are still lying around for
you, with all of the native
OS functionality built in.
So for us if we just did editMenu,
we will theoretically get
an Edit menu in place there.
And now if we go over to my awesome
application, the ability, I can't pull up
the Dev Tools after I close them anymore
because I've gotten rid of that menu.
And that's what we were
talking about earlier,
but the default Edit menu is back.
My File menu, it'd be great if I
could do Cmd+O here or Ctrl+O,
depending on the OS, and
I'll show you how to do that.
And then we'll probably leave this
one where it is for a little bit,
cuz I think we've made
our point in this case.
So the one final tweak is
adding a keyboard shortcut or,
in Electron terms,
an accelerator, to a menu item.
And that is super easy to do,
we simply type accelerator.
And you can kinda see, you kind of give
a string that means what it should be.
And you can do Cmd+O, you can do Ctrl+O,
but as anyone who has
used both a Windows PC or
Linux PC as well as a Mac knows that
it is Ctrl on Windows and Linux.
It is Cmd on macOS, and
you could write a whole bunch of processes
if that platform is Darwin, and
think about all that yourself.
Or you can simply write this and
Electron, under the hood,
will figure out what it was supposed to be
for that OS, and it will make total sense.
So we can save that.
And you can do this for
anything in your application.
All those IPC calls that we said back and
forth, right?
You can simply call them, I mean,
that's why we kinda broke them up.
You can go ahead, you can get any of
those and call any of them from menu,
give them a different accelerator.
You can do any keystroke you want to do,
any of the functionality that we had in
there, and it will all just kind of work.
But just to kind of verify that
in terms of our application, so
now it's got Cmd+O, as you can see,
and I can hit that.
And I get the window, and now I can open.
So we're getting dangerously close,
in a relatively short amount of time,
considering the amount of talking I did,
right?
Dangerously close to what
is starting to feel and
behave like a full desktop application,
right?
And I won't lie to you, some of this is
like the 80-20 principle here, right?
Like all the little tweaks are,
where a part of this is super important.
But like I said, all things said and
done, relatively fast for the amount
that we have, for as close as we've
gotten to a full desktop application.